---
title:  "Week-3"
date:   2020-06-15
categories: progess
tags: jekyll
---

# NodeJS Application

## Getting Familiar with IceStudio:

As [IceStudio](https://github.com/FPGAwars/icestudio) has a decent sized codebase and it is being developed since 2016, the first three days were spent on getting familiar with how things are organized in icestudio and what components can be reused by me. Luckily, there were a lot of similarities between icestudio and visualcircuit which allowed me to entirely build the frontend of VisualCircuit based on icestudio with minor changes but the backend required major changes.

## Development of Frontend:
I had to modify some menu's and their working in a few html as well as develop my own blocks because they were entirely different from icestudio one's. I also had to design the frontend in such a way so that future UI updates of icestudio could be easily intergrated into VisualCircuit. The frontend will be demonstrated in the video attached below.

## Development of Backend:
- IceStudio converted visual language into FPGA implementation so a lot of things differed from VisualCircuit. I had to modify a lot of code and its output to match out python synthesizer's input. The icestudio project had a lot of coupling and each file had many dependencies so the code often went to an unstable state. After long hours, I was eventually able to make significant changes to the backend which resulted into an output that somewhat matched the input of the python synthesizer. But I had to make slight modifications to the Python synthesizer to get it working.

## Developing Blocks Library and Changes to Wire connectivity:
- As each block had its own specific number of inputs and outputs and representation, I had to create my own blocks for the backend. I developed four blocks for the initial prototype: Screen, Camera, Edge Detector and a Color Filter. I also made some changes to the wire and block connections to suit my needs.

## Modification to Python Synthesizer:
- As the output of the NodeJS application did not turn out to be exactly as I expected so it was relatively easier to change the Python backend instead of making a major change in the NodeJS frontend. The JSON file which is the output of the NodeJS application had a different format so I had to change the Python synthesizer accordingly.

## Video Demonstration:
- A brief video demonstrating about the frontend and output the NodeJS application generates can be found [here](https://youtu.be/b7Jz1vIxcFs).
