---
title:  "Week-11"
date:   2020-08-15
categories: progess
tags: jekyll
---

As the Formula1 was finally up and running on my system. It was time for the interesting part of this tool. Before this I was developing the infrastructure of the tool, now it was time to actually test it and play with it.

### F1 Follow Line Exercise

In this exercise, the main challenge was to make the Formula1 car follow a red line drawn on the road. The car had a camera attached to its front and a red line on the road through which it was supposed to navigate. I had to program and fine tune the PID controller to get it working properly and release a video.

To solve this exercise, the following steps were required:
Simulated ROS Camera --> Cropping --> Averaging Blur --> Color Filtering --> Contour Detection --> Direction Finder --> PID Controller --> MotorDriver

I am not going into detail here as everything is demonstrated in the video. I finally solved the exercise very quickly using the tool and as everything was running in parallel, it was working pretty well.

[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JdeRobot/status/1298632443969392640)
[Link to Issue](https://github.com/JdeRobot/VisualCircuit/issues/31)


### Additional Blocks

To get the Formula1 car running, some additional blocks had to be created. Some other blocks were also created. These blocks included:

- PID Controller
- Blur
- Contour Detector
- Cropper
- Image Reader
- Threshold
- Laser Sensor

### Thumbnails

As new blocks were created, I also had to assign them thumbnails as well as write short descriptions about them.

### F1 Demo

The video for the F1 Follow Line Exercise can be found below:
[Link to Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w8S_1Qn6ETI)

